# October 2025

## 2025-10-29

*   Today I wrote a blog post about [RSS](https://rohitfarmer.com/posts/2025/rss/) . What it is, how to use it, and why it matters. The main reason was to include its link in my blog post's footer, where I ask people to follow my blog through RSS. Many people might not know what RSS is, and the link right underneath may give them a primer. We should keep mentioning and writing about tools, technologies, and our beliefs on our websites, not necessarily as experts, but as witnesses. The more people see us using and talking about it, the more willing they will be to adopt it.
*   I also included a meta tag in all the pages of this website for search engines to not to index and follow this website. I do not want this website to be private, but also not openly available. Users of Ctrl-c.club will still be able to see my website pages being updated and general audience can reach this website through it's link mentioned on my main website. I want people to first visit my main website before reaching this one, so if someone Googles my name then they should only get the URL of my main website in the search results.

## 2025-10-28

*   I am halfway through the audiobook "Be Water, My Friend" by Shannon Lee. It's a book about Bruce Lee's teachings, written and narrated by his daughter, Shannon. So far, it has been great. However, as I listen to audiobooks in my car while commuting to work, I may have to get the paperback and re-read it to fully absorb the concepts.
*   Today, I spent some time updating the NeoVim setup on this server. The HTML editing parts seems to be working fine, but I am having issues with R and Python execution. After trying for hours and asking, ChatGPT, Gemini and Lumo I gave up on getting Python and R working. At one point ChatGPT couldn't even get me a config file that I can use to write HTML without unnecessary complex tweaks and endless errors and warning popups. So I reverted back to my original setup with a few updates. For now it seems to have enough functionality to keep editing this website. I love using Neovim editor, but sometimes it can be a pain to get it running properly.

## 2025-10-27

*   One of my friends argued, against the vaccine mandates, that we should be allowed to refuse what we do not want to put in our bodies. I agree with that at the food level, but not for vaccines. The argument to support vaccine mandates is the same as the law behind drunk driving. Yes, you are allowed to get drunk, but not drive while intoxicated, because you might cause an accident and kill someone else. So, yes, in theory, you are allowed not to get vaccinated, but then don't go out in public and pass on the infection to someone else who might die of the disease. And this argument primarily supports medical interventions against communicable diseases. If you have cancer, then nobody will require you to go and get chemotherapy, because your cancer can not spread to other people.
*   Today I read the blog post ["Smartphones are not the enemy"](https://kevquirk.com/blog/smartphones-are-not-the-enemy/) by Kev Quirk, which he wrote in support of Thomas Tigby's original post. I support the arguments these gentlemen make that the new dumbphone revolution is just a fad, and that smartphones themselves are not addictive; it's how and what we use them for. If you are hooked on apps based on the attention economy, you are doomed to doomscrolling. There are easier ways to manage phone addiction than moving to a dumb phone or an overly priced minimal phone. I have switched off all notifications except instant messengers and phone calls, and uninstalled Facebook and many other related apps. My phone usage is for making calls, texting, maps, camera, banking, gym sign-in, day care sign-in, Mastodon, RSS, and audiobooks. And none of these things are addictive to the point of despair.

*   Kev posted his blog link on his Mastodon account to which someone replied "kinda like guns, right?". To which I replied "the consequences of gun violence are irreversible and can affect uninvolved parties. Smartphone usage only affects the primary user and can be reversed. Additionally, if you refrain from installing attention-grabbing or addictive apps, basically all of Meta's products, then a smartphone is no more destructive than a dumb phone. Smartphone usage is like food. Salad is always there, but people still choose deep-fried." Link to the comment thread [https://fosstodon.org/@swatantra/115446321630383212](https://fosstodon.org/@swatantra/115446321630383212)

## 2025-10-23

*   I wasn't expecting to read about James Bond Stoicism, but here it is, and now I want to read the books. Movies are great, but since I am trying to read the books behind all my favorite films, this should be on my list. [James Bond Soicism](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/advice/james-bond-stoicism/)
*   I am having such a hard time concentrating today. My brain seems to be mushed with all the worries and the distractions around me.

## 2025-10-22

*   We had a small Diwali party in our office today and around 12 people turned up. We had a great time eating and chatting. Everybody likes Indian food here.
*   I am trying to find a straight forward image hosting solution that I can use to display images on this website. I may end up uploading images directly to the server and then minimizing the size using Image Magick.

## 2025-10-21

Today, I updated this website to complement my primary website. On my main website, I post long-form, polished blog posts, and it includes my CV and work-related documentation. This website is more like my online junk journal, where I can post whatever I find interesting without worrying too much about the format or the intended audience. It is also an attempt to utilize Ctrl-C more regularly. I like the idea of pubnixes, and more people should use Tildeverse to make the internet less siloed by big tech and more interesting.