# December 2025

## 2025-12-03
tags: chatgpt

Yesterday, I posted on [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@rohitfarmer/115652095342331560) that I had ChatGPT create a static site generator for this journaling website, and someone asked why I did not use any of the existing generators. I did not set out to create an SSG. For this journaling website, I did not find the features in the generators that I already knew about, and it felt easier to make something of my own than to find and learning an existing one. Right now, there are hundreds of generators available, and it's hard to decide unless you already have a specific idea of which generator is best for your project. This could be both a power and a drawback of using LLMs, as for many tasks, people may find it easier to create something of their own than to use or collaborate on an existing solution. I have quite a few ideas for online projects that I can now build using ChatGPT, if not a complete product, at least a prototype. 

## 2025-12-02
tags: ssg, chatgpt
draft: false

* Today, I launched a new version of my online journal on my subdomain [https://journal.rohitfarmer.com](https://journal.rohitfarmer.com), one I had been thinking about for some time. I will still keep my [https://ctrl-c.club/~swatantra](https://ctrl-c.club/~swatantra), but will remove the journal section. This whole new website is generated by a static site generator (SSG) that I created specifically for this journal with the help of ChatGPT. It is impressive how much you can achieve using ChatGPT if you have a basic understanding of programming and can clearly explain what you are trying to build. In the new system, instead of editing the HTML directly, I write the entries in Markdown, which are then converted to HTML by a single Python build script. There are other components that I will describe in detail in a blog post once I have added more features to the system or have used it enough to confirm that it is working. If it is successful, I may release the code publicly for others to use. That will be really cool to publish an SSG that I have created from scratch. 

* I am really enjoying the new build setup for this journal website. I am now feeling motivated to publish the code in a more generalized form for people to use. It's going to be opinionated and tailored to what I want from this website, but others may find it helpful as well. 
